The best defense against man in the middle attacks might be the following. Think of it as an "authentication ritual" or "handshake". The pair agrees on a random number with a commit-reveal scheme, and also commits public keys during the commit phase. They reveal their numbers, and should both get the same random number. The credentials exchanged can be proven honest by validating that both people in the pair got the same number. This can be validated in many different ways. The probability of the man in the middle attacking this in a way that both peers get the same number is 1/numberSize, and, the attacker still has no control over _what_ number is generated (but can technically exchange false credentials while making it seem like honest credentials were exchanged. )

Then, one way to verify that the peers got the same number (there are many other ways to do this too) is to use the random number to agree on a random minute early on in event when the pair pauses their conference. The ROI from the attack is 2x, and defense only has to succeed in 50% of all cases to neutralize the attack. If the pair agrees on one out of three minutes that they pause the conference, and 50% of the population does this, it will ruin 50% of all attacks and the attacker will gain nothing. Increasing possible choices from 1/3 to 1/more_than_three will cause negative gains for attacker, and increasing population that engages in the defense from 50% towards 100% will do the same thing. This mechanism provides minimal defense and really no reason to have more (there are other approaches that defend in 1/10^12 cases instead of 1/3 but this one is minimal effort.. )
